You are listening to a message from First Baptist Church, Wichita Falls.
For more information about First Baptist, click the link in the show notes or go to FBCWS.org.
Today's message comes from Senior Pastor, Dr. Bob McCartney.
Good morning and welcome to all of you.
Welcome to those of you joining us at the church at Shepherd at our west campus and at 11 o'clock east.
We're so glad that you're with us this morning.
And I'm really happy that you're here to share in this Christmas celebration.
We're in the midst of a series of messages called remember.
And what we wanna do is remember the real meaning and message and mission of Christmas.
So this morning we're gonna open our Bibles to Luke chapter 19 verse 10, one verse of scripture, but I do have several others that I'm gonna refer to as we move through this particular message this morning.
I'm really disappointed.
I'm just so disappointed because I announced the scripture passage and I got nothing.
I got nothing, okay?
So we're gonna do that again.
I'm going to read Luke 1910.
That's much better.
I'm really excited about that now.
I was like, how am I going to get through this message if they don't do that?
How do I get there?
I don't know.
Well, you know, there's a lot of prep that goes into Christmas.
I mean, you think about the choir in the orchestra and the voices of Mobile, the amount of preparation that it takes for them to do something like this.
You think about our own Christmases.
There's just so much preparation that goes into it.
You've got to go to the store and buy the food, and you've got to prepare the food for the meal, and you've got to go to the store, and you've got to go shopping, you've got to find the perfect gift.
You've got to wrap the gifts.
And in our household, there's all the decorating that goes on.
I am the pack mule, basically.
I don't do any decorating.
I just haul the stuff out of the attic, bring the stuff into the house, take the empty crates back up.
Everything else is done by my wife who does all the preparation for Christmas.
The first Christmas was that way too.
There was a lot of preparation that went into the first Christmas.
I mean, there were hundreds and hundreds of years of prophecy.
There were countless times in which God saved the lineage of the Messiah in which Jesus would be born and all of those generations that came, that proved the chain that
went from David all the way to Jesus because he would be the son of David.
There's all this preparation that goes into Christmas in order for Jesus to come, not for us to have a midwinter festival, not for us to enjoy some nice music, not for us to even be with our family and friends.
Jesus came on a rescue mission.
You see, the mission of Christmas is a rescue mission.
Jesus says in Luke 19, 10, the son of man has come.
to seek and to save that which is lost.
Jesus came on a search and rescue mission for all of us, for lost humanity.
And so this morning, I wanna explore that expression for just a few minutes, because I do think it's important for us to understand what Christmas is really all about.
What Christmas is really all about is that God loves us so much, that God cares for you so much,
And God demonstrates to you that you matter so much that He said His only begotten His one of a kind, unique son on a mission to rescue you.
And I believe that that has to start with an understanding of a word in the Bible.
And it's a word that we would almost like to avoid.
It is the word lost.
You see, we need rescue because we are fallen and lost.
That is why we need rescue.
Jesus says He came
to search and to save those who are lost.
Now, when we use the word lost, we usually think it means like to misplace something.
And there is a sense in which that's true in this word, but the Greek word that the New Testament is written in, the word that Jesus said for lost actually doesn't mean so much misplaced as it means ruined.
It means destroyed.
It means beyond repair.
You see, sin didn't just wound us
Sin wrecked us.
That's what sin did.
God creates his perfect world.
He puts two sinless people in the world, Adam and Eve, and he gives them one commandment.
You got one rule, and they promptly break it.
And as a result of their rebellion against God, all of their offspring, which includes all of us, would inherit a sin nature.
We would all
become part of a fallen race.
It is not as God intended, but God loves us so much that even there in the Garden of Eden, God said, I'm going to send a Savior.
As God begins to tell Adam and Eve about the consequences of their sin, he also speaks to the serpent who attempted them.
And in that moment, God says something to Adam and Eve and to the serpent that is really important.
In Genesis chapter three, verse 15, he says, He will crush your head and you will only strike at his heel.
He's saying, I'm going to send someone who will crush the power of the evil one.
I'm going to send that one into this world.
And you see, God sent his son to save us from our own lostness.
We deny our lostness at our own peril.
We are lost.
We are not just exploring.
We are sinful.
We are not being our authentic selves.
We are broken.
We're not just on some journey.
We are lost.
We are wrecked.
We are wounded beyond self-repair.
This past Thanksgiving, there was a tragic story that came from West Texas.
An elderly couple had left their home in Lubbock and gone to the small town of Panhandle, which is right outside Amarillo, and they went for a family gathering, but they left their cell phones at home.
They forgot them, but hey, they had lived in a world without cell phone, so this shouldn't be any problem.
They got to the family gathering, they enjoyed a great meal,
enjoyed family time, the time came for them to go back to Lubbock.
And so they left, hugged all their family and started on their journey.
Well, after a while, the family began to worry because they hadn't called to say they made it home.
So they started calling and after a little while, the family said, you know what, maybe they're on the side of the road, we're going to retrace.
So they drove all the way to Lubbock, no sign of them anywhere on the road and they're not at home.
They called the police and told them,
that they were worried about their family member.
It took a few hours because, you know, you can't just immediately put out a search, but after 24 hours, they started an official search.
I mean, law enforcement agencies, everybody's looking for them.
The long story short, five days later, there was a tragic ending.
They found their car and they found their deceased bodies.
In a remote pasture outside Tukumcari, New Mexico,
Somewhere along the way, they took a wrong turn and got confused and wound up lost.
You see, we like to think of lostness sometimes when we hear these messages and churches, someone who's defiant against God.
You don't have to be defiant against God to be lost.
You just have to drift.
You just have to go your own way.
And if you go your own way,
You end up lost without any way to save yourself.
This is the story of all of us.
But here's the good news.
Since we can't save ourselves, Christ had to come.
See, not only are we lost, but the reason for our lostness is the Bible tells us repeatedly, we are dead in trespasses and sins.
We're not just wounded, we're dead.
In Colossians chapter 2 verse 13,
When you were dead in your sins and the uncircumcision of your sinful nature, God made you alive with Christ.
Dead people can't rescue themselves.
They don't revive themselves.
They can't call for help.
They can't restore a broken relationship.
And dead people don't seek God.
The only thing you contribute to your salvation is the sin that made it necessary.
We are dead in trespasses and sins and only Christ can make us alive again.
You know, every now and then you'll see one of those stories on the news that's like from somewhere else and you're wondering why they put it on our news.
Well, I saw one of those stories a couple of years ago and it really got my attention.
And it was a story about a guy who was out
In 2021, his name was Michael.
He's in Rochester, Minnesota, and they had a massive snowstorm, and he's shoveling snow.
And the story was about how easy it is to overexert yourself doing something like shoveling snow.
You don't get really hot because it's snow and it's cold, but your heart really starts working.
And all of a sudden, Michael's shoveling the snow, and he falls over face down in the snow.
Thankfully, a neighbor saw him fall down and was watching it, and he realized he's not moving.
He's not getting up, so the neighbor rushes across the street.
He realizes he doesn't have a pulse.
He's not breathing.
He rolls Michael over.
He starts CPR, grabs his cell phone, calls 911, the paramedics come while he's doing chest compressions on Michael.
The paramedics take over.
They take him to the hospital and Michael miraculously survives.
But for 15 minutes, he didn't have a pulse.
Some reporter ask him, and they're telling the story, trying to have people be cautious.
And they ask him some inane question, and Michael responded like this.
I did nothing.
I was gone.
They're the ones who brought me back.
Let me explain something to you.
You can do nothing to make yourself alive in Christ.
Nothing.
Only He can make you alive.
Only Jesus can bring you back.
Salvation through Christ is absolutely necessary because we are dead and our trespasses and sins.
We're also told in this passage that Jesus alone can restore our broken relationship with God.
Only Jesus can do this.
You see, Christmas is not just the celebration of this wonderful truth and all the blessings that come because of Christmas, but Christmas also signals to us something that's very important, that salvation, eternal life, spending forever in a great place called heaven.
is possible only through Jesus Christ, through Him and through Him alone.
Jesus said these words.
In John 14, 6, I am the way, the truth, the life.
No one comes to the Father but through me.
Other religions always say, here's what you must do to get to God.
Here's what you must
Perform.
Here are the religious rituals that you have to go through.
Here are the moral actions that you have to take to somehow get your way to God.
And yet, if we're dead in our sins, we can't work our way anywhere.
We can't get there on our own.
We need a Savior and there is one and there's only one.
You see, every other religion says, here's what you've got to do.
You've got to do.
Jesus says, here's what I came to do for you.
Here's what I've done.
He is the one and only Savior."
The Bible echoes that in 1 Timothy 2, 5, Paul writes, for there is one God and one mediator between God and mankind, the man Christ Jesus.
Peter said in a sermon in Acts 4, verse 12, for there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given to people by which we must be saved.
Jesus is not a way to heaven.
Jesus is the one and only way to heaven.
He's it.
The miracle is not.
Oh, you mean there's only one way?
No, the miracle is there's a way.
There's a way.
It just seems so narrow and judgmental.
Don't you imagine something.
You're in a building.
Maybe an unfamiliar place, but all of a sudden you see smoke, and smoke begins to fill the hallways.
And you're really unfamiliar with this building, so you're not exactly sure which way you should go to get out of the building.
And you're confused, you become anxious, and maybe you're family with you, and you've got to get out of this building, and you're trying to figure out how to do it, and those hallways are filling up with smoke.
When all of a sudden you hear this crash through a door, and there's a firefighter who comes the door, acts in hand, he's chopped through the door, and he looks at you and says, this is the only way out.
That's not judgmental.
That's clarity.
You see, exclusivity is clarity.
Exclusivity is also mercy.
It is merciful to say there is one and only way and his name is Jesus.
He is the way to life.
You've been listening to a message from First Baptist Church, which is not false.
For more information about First Baptist, including gathering times and locations, click the link in the show notes, or go to FBCWF.org.
We'll see you next week.